spark 가 scala 언어 기반이라 (비록 지금은 python으로 모든 조작이 가능하지만)     
종종 scala 코드를 볼일이 있고, scala 언어의 특성이 spark 에 녹아 있다고 생각이 들면서 공부를 시작.




<br/><br/>
유튜브 참고 : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C6B4EPbnvfo&list=PL8kmk2VivDmRueOZS4aKm0xUlYp0frQQS.     
scala doc : https://docs.scala-lang.org/


<br/><br/><br/>

### What is Scala?
Scala is a modern multi-paradigm programming language designed to express common programming patterns in a concise, elegant, and type-safe way. It seamlessly integrates features of object-oriented and functional languages.    

     
-> 객체 지향이 기본이긴 한데, 함수형 접근을 포함하고 있는 언어
    
<br/><br/>
    
### Scala is object-oriented
Scala is a pure object-oriented language in the sense that every value is an object. Types and behaviors of objects are described by classes and traits. Classes can be extended by subclassing, and by using a flexible mixin-based composition mechanism as a clean replacement for multiple inheritance.    

-> 순수 객체지향 언어. class 와 trait로 표현된 객체. 다중 상속을 우아하게 대체함(= mixin-based composition)

<br/><br/>

### Scala is functional
Scala is also a functional language in the sense that every function is a value. Scala provides a lightweight syntax for defining anonymous functions, it supports higher-order functions, it allows functions to be nested, and it supports currying. Scala’s case classes and its built-in support for pattern matching provide the functionality of algebraic types, which are used in many functional languages. Singleton objects provide a convenient way to group functions that aren’t members of a class.    
    

Furthermore, Scala’s notion of pattern matching naturally extends to the processing of XML data with the help of right-ignoring sequence patterns, by way of general extension via extractor objects. In this context, for comprehensions are useful for formulating queries. These features make Scala ideal for developing applications like web services.    
    
-> 함수 자체도 값으로 취급할 수 있다는 점에서 함수형 언어. 익명 함수를 정의하는데 간편.

<br/><br/>

### Scala is statically typed
Scala’s expressive type system enforces, at compile-time, that abstractions are used in a safe and coherent manner. In particular, the type system supports:    
    
- Generic classes
- Variance annotations
- Upper and lower type bounds
- Inner classes and abstract type members as object members
- Compound types
- Explicitly typed self references
- Implicit parameters and conversions
- Polymorphic methods     

Type inference means the user is not required to annotate code with redundant type information. In combination, these features provide a powerful basis for the safe reuse of programming abstractions and for the type-safe extension of software.    
    

-> 스칼라는 정적 타입 언어. 추상화를 안전하고 일관적인 방식으로 제공.

<br/><br/>

### Scala is extensible
In practice, the development of domain-specific applications often requires domain-specific language extensions. Scala provides a unique combination of language mechanisms that make it straightforward to add new language constructs in the form of libraries.

In many cases, this can be done without using meta-programming facilities such as macros. For example:

Implicit classes allow adding extension methods to existing types.
String interpolation is user-extensible with custom interpolators.    
    

-> 확장하기 편하다. 라이브러리(dsl 등)로 만들어 사용하기도 편하다.

<br/><br/>

### Scala interoperates
Scala is designed to interoperate well with the popular Java Runtime Environment (JRE). In particular, the interaction with the mainstream object-oriented Java programming language is as seamless as possible. Newer Java features like SAMs, lambdas, annotations, and generics have direct analogues in Scala.

Those Scala features without Java analogues, such as default and named parameters, compile as closely to Java as reasonably possible. Scala has the same compilation model (separate compilation, dynamic class loading) as Java and allows access to thousands of existing high-quality libraries.    
    

-> jre에서 돌아가도록 잘 디자인 되었다. java와 부드럽게 통신하도록 제공한다. 새로운 java 기능도 scala에서 곧바로 사용할 수 있다. 역으로 java에서 scala 호출도 잘되는 것으로 알고 있다.
